# jointAction

It is often necessary for individuals to coordinate their actions with one another, but little is known about the mechanisms that underlie such coordinated or “joint” actions. In real world scenarios such as dancing, rowing or playing music, coordinated actions are facilitated by direct observation of co-actors or perception of rhythmic structure. But how are actions coordinated when such shared cues are unavailable? To address this question, we recorded brain activity while pairs of participants manoeuvred a cursor to a cued target either individually (solo control) or together with a partner from whom they were physically and visually separated during action control (joint control). We frequency tagged individual elements within the displays and applied time-frequency analyses to track neural representations of target and distractor events throughout each trial. Participants were faster and more accurate under joint than solo control. Concurrent neural and eye-tracking data revealed altered selective attention prior to and during action execution, suggesting that joint control affects actions across multiple processing stages. Critically, these effects were associated with both behavioural and neural coupling under joint control – quantified as increased interpersonal correlations – peaking at target acquisition. We describe a previously unknown neural-offset response coinciding with target acquisition, which we suggest is a mechanism for, and marker of, interpersonal neural coupling.

